======================
Pulp 2.5 Release Notes
======================

Pulp 2.5.1
==========
This is a an important bugfix release that contains the fix for
`#1165355 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1165355>`_ and
`#1171509 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1171509>`_.  Additional bugs that were
`fixed in Pulp 2.5.1 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=RELEASE_PENDING&bug_status=CLOSED&classification=Community&component=API%2Fintegration&component=async%2Ftasks&component=consumers&component=documentation&component=nodes&component=rel-eng&component=user-experience&component=z_other&list_id=2768089&product=Pulp&query_format=advanced&target_release=2.5.1>`_.


Upgrade Instructions for 2.5.0 --> 2.5.1
----------------------------------------

Perform the upgrade instructions for `upgrading from 2.4.x`_

Additionally for systems that are being upgraded from 2.5.0 to 2.5.1 and are using pulp_rpm
to manage yum repositories you will need to manually remove the published repositories from
disk and republish due to `1171509 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1171509>`_
This is only necessary if you have been running Pulp 2.5.0.  If you are upgrading from 2.4.x
these steps are not required::

    $ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/pulp/published/yum/*

For each of your rpm repositories::

    $ pulp-admin rpm repo publish run --repo-id <repo-id>

.. _upgrading from 2.4.x: 2.4.x_upgrade_to_2.5.x_

Pulp 2.5.0
==========

New Features
------------

- pulp-admin now has a bash tab completion script.

- A new selinux policy is introduced which confines the `pulp_workers`, `pulp_celerybeat`, and
  `pulp_resource_manager` processes.

- Pulp 2.5.0 works with `pulp_docker`, an optional plugin to manage Docker
  repositories. In Pulp 2.5.0 this optional plugin is considered "tech preview"
  and did not undergo the same level of testing as other plugins. Please
  refer to the
  `pulp_docker documentation <http://pulp-docker.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_
  for usage information.

- Pulp now supports SSL on its connection to MongoDB. It is strongly recommended that you
  `configure MongoDB to perform SSL`_, and configure Pulp to require a validly signed certificate
  from Mongo. If you wish to do this, edit ``/etc/pulp/server.conf`` and configure ``ssl`` and
  ``verify_ssl`` to ``true`` in the ``[database]`` section.

.. _configure MongoDB to perform SSL: http://docs.mongodb.org/v2.4/tutorial/configure-ssl/#configure-mongod-and-mongos-for-ssl

- When the `pulp_workers` service is stopped, it will now cancel tasks that the
  workers are processing instead of waiting for those tasks to finish.

Deprecation
-----------

- The `task_type` attribute of a `Task Report` is deprecated with Pulp 2.5.0. This attribute will
  be removed in a future release.

- Many API calls return an attribute named `_ns`. This attribute will be removed in a future
  release and should not be used.

Bugs
----

You can see the complete list of bugs that were
`fixed in Pulp 2.5.0 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=RELEASE_PENDING&bug_status=CLOSED&classification=Community&component=API%2Fintegration&component=async%2Ftasks&component=consumers&component=documentation&component=nodes&component=rel-eng&component=user-experience&component=z_other&list_id=2768089&product=Pulp&query_format=advanced&target_release=2.5.0>`_.

.. _2.4.x_upgrade_to_2.5.0:

.. _2.4.x_upgrade_to_2.5.x :

Upgrade Instructions for 2.4.x --> 2.5.x
----------------------------------------

To upgrade, shut down all Pulp services::

    $ for s in {goferd,pulp_celerybeat,pulp_resource_manager,pulp_workers,httpd}; do sudo systemctl stop $s; done;

Next, update the packages::

    $ sudo yum update
    
Run the pulp-manage-db script as the apache user::

    $ sudo -u apache pulp-manage-db
    
Restart the pulp services and apache

Next, run ``pulp-manage-db``::

    $ sudo -u apache pulp-manage-db

And lastly, restart the Pulp services::

    $ for s in {goferd,pulp_celerybeat,pulp_resource_manager,pulp_workers,httpd}; do sudo systemctl start $s; done;


.. note::

   If you are using Upstart instead of systemd, you should use service $s {stop,start} in the lines
   above.

Thank You
---------

Thank you to all of Pulp's contributors, especially these new ones!

- Irina Gulina
- Peter Gustafsson
- Petter Hassberg
- Dennis Kliban
- Christoffer Kylvåg
- Austin Macdonald
