======================
Pulp 2.1 Release Notes
======================

Pulp 2.1.1
==========

This release provides bugfixes and also includes some performance improvements.

Changes
-------

When making a REST API call to copy units between repositories, there is now an
opportunity to limit which fields of those units get loaded into RAM and handed
to the importer. This can enable great reductions in RAM use when copying units
that contain a lot of metadata.

Notable Bugs
------------

:bz:`928087` - pickling error in pulp.log when cancelling sync
tasks

:bz:`949186` - The pycurl downloader times out on active
downloads, even during very good transfer rates

All Bugs
--------

You can see the complete list of bugs that were
`fixed in Pulp 2.1.1 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?list_id=1242840&resolution=---&resolution=CURRENTRELEASE&classification=Community&target_release=2.1.1&query_format=advanced&bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=CLOSED&component=admin-client&component=bindings&component=consumer-client%2Fagent&component=consumers&component=coordinator&component=documentation&component=events&component=nodes&component=okaara&component=rel-eng&component=repositories&component=rest-api&component=selinux&component=upgrade&component=users&component=z_other&product=Pulp>`_.

Upgrade Instructions for 2.1.0 --> 2.1.1
----------------------------------------

Before beginning the upgrade, stop Apache so that it doesn't cause any concurrency problems during
the database migration step.

To upgrade to the new Pulp release from version 2.1.0, use yum to install the latest RPMs
from the Pulp repository and run the database migrations::

    $ sudo yum upgrade
    $ sudo pulp-manage-db

After upgrading, start Apache again and Pulp 2.1.1 should be functioning properly.

Pulp 2.1.0
==========

New Features
------------

#. Pulp now has support for hierarchical collections of Pulp Servers that are able to synchronize with each
   other. These are called Pulp Nodes, and you can read more about them :doc:`in the nodes section <../nodes>`.
#. Unit counts within each repository are now tracked by type.
#. We now support Fedora 18 and Apache 2.4.
#. It is now possible to upgrade from Pulp 1.1 to 2.1.

Client Changes
--------------

#. The ``pulp-consumer [bind, unbind]`` operations have been moved into ``pulp-consumer rpm [bind, unbind]``.
   These operations have been moved out of this project into the pulp_rpm project. You will need to install
   pulp-rpm-consumer-extensions to get the pulp-consumer rpm section to find these commands.
#. The ``pulp-admin rpm consumer [list, search, update, unregister, history]`` commands from the pulp_rpm
   project have been moved into this project, and can now be found under ``pulp-admin consumer *``.

Noteworthy Bugs Fixed
---------------------

:bz:`872724` - Requesting package profile on consumer without
a package profile results in error

:bz:`878234` - Consumer group package_install, update and
uninstall not returning correct result

:bz:`916794` - pulp-admin orphan list, Performance & Memory
concerns (~17 minutes and consuming consuming ~1.65GB memory). The --summary flag was removed and summary
behavior was made the default when listing orphans. A new --details flag has been added to get the previous
behavior.

:bz:`918160` - Orphan list --summary mode isn't a summary.
Listing orphans now returns a much smaller set of related fields (namely only the unit keys).

:bz:`920792` - High memory usage (growth of 2GB) from orphan
remove --all. All server-side orphan operations now use generators instead of database batch queries.

RFE Bugs
--------

:bz:`876725` - RFE - consumer/agent - support option to
perform 'best effort' install of content. We will now avoid aborting an install when one of the packages is not
available for installation.

All Bugs
--------

You can see the complete list of bugs that were
`fixed in Pulp 2.1.0 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?list_id=1242840&resolution=---&resolution=CURRENTRELEASE&classification=Community&target_release=2.1.0&query_format=advanced&bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=CLOSED&component=admin-client&component=bindings&component=consumer-client%2Fagent&component=consumers&component=coordinator&component=documentation&component=events&component=nodes&component=okaara&component=rel-eng&component=repositories&component=rest-api&component=selinux&component=upgrade&component=users&component=z_other&product=Pulp>`_.

API Changes
-----------

Applicability API Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We have improved the Content Applicability API significantly in this release. A few major enhancements are:
 
#. Added an optional ``repo_criteria`` parameter that can restrict applicability searches by repository.
#. Changed units specification format to be a dictionary keyed by Content Type ID and a list of units of that
   type as a value. You can also pass in an empty list corresponding to a Content Type ID to check the
   applicability of all units of that specific type.
#. All 3 parameters are now optional. Check out updated API documentation to read more about the behavior of the
   API in case of missing parameters.
#. Return format is updated to a more compact format keyed by Consumer ID and Content Type ID and it now returns
   only applicable units.

The API is documented in detail 
`in the applicability API documentation <http://pulp-dev-guide.readthedocs.org/en/devguide-2.1/integration/rest-api/consumer/applicability.html>`_.

Distributor Plugin API Change
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Distributor plugin method ``create_consumer_payload`` has changed to accept a new parameter,
``binding_config``. Individual bindings can contain configuration options that may be necessary when providing
the consumer with the information necessary to use the published repository. This field will contain those
options if specified by the user.

Upgrade Instructions for 2.0 --> 2.1
------------------------------------

To upgrade to the new Pulp release from version 2.0, you should begin by using yum to install the latest RPMs
from the Pulp repository, run the database migrations, and cleanup orphaned packages::

    $ sudo yum upgrade
    $ sudo pulp-manage-db
    $ sudo pulp-admin orphan remove --all
