=======================
Pulp 2.10 Release Notes
=======================

Pulp 2.10.2
===========

* This is a hotfix release.

Known Issues
------------

* Upgrading on EL 7.3 can take longer than on other platforms. `pulp-selinux` package unnecessarily
  runs restorecon on `/var/lib/pulp`. The duration of upgrade depends on the amount of content in
  that directory.
* As part of fixing the above issue, it was also discovered that upgrading from 2.10.0 can take
  longer than from 2.9.1 and earlier versions. The fix for this `issue
  <https://pulp.plan.io/issues/2424>`_ will be released with 2.10.3.

Bug Fixes
---------

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.10.2`


Pulp 2.10.1
===========

Bug Fixes
---------

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.10.1`


Pulp 2.10.0
===========

New Features
------------

* Multiple instances of ``pulp_resource_manager`` can now exist in parallel without interfering with
  each other. The original copy will now hold an exclusive lock until it dies or is killed, at
  which point another instance of ``pulp_resource_manager`` can acquire the lock and take its place.

* A full re-sync can be forced with a 'force_full' option. It will trigger full sync where
  no sync optimization will be applied or steps skipped. This option can be used by ``force_full``
  option in override_config via API or ``--force-full`` via CLI.

* RPM, ISO, and Docker repositories can be published using the new rsync distributors. These
  distributors afford Pulp users to rsync repositories to remote servers.

Upgrade
-------

Action required: If you are upgrading from 2.8.2 or earlier direct to 2.10.0 or later, you will find
that many empty directories are present in /var/lib/pulp/content/. Several migrations that moved
unit files to new locations were optimized for performance, specifically when operating on NFS, and
that required removal of a directory pruning stage that was taking some users many hours. Instead,
you can now perform that removal separately from the migration system. Or pulp will happily run with
the empty directories in place if you do not wish to spend time running the removal.

To execute the removal, which may take a long time over NFS, run this command::

  $ sudo -u apache find /var/lib/pulp/content/ -type d -empty \
    -not -path "/var/lib/pulp/content/units/*" -delete

