=======================
Pulp 2.11 Release Notes
=======================

EL6 Support Changes
===================

The 2.11 releases are the last releases with support for deploying Pulp itself on EL6. This does not
change the use cases of running ``pulp-agent`` on EL6 or whether Pulp can sync and publish EL6
repositories, which will still be supported.

In preparation for 2.12+, EL6 users are encouraged to upgrade their Pulp environments to EL7. See
the `mailing discussion <https://www.redhat.com/archives/pulp-list/2016-November/msg00022.html>`_ or
the `blog post <http://pulpproject.org/2016/11/17/django14-epel6-retirement/>`_ for background and
motivation of this decision.


Pulp 2.11.0
===========

New Features
------------

* For RPM content, a full sync will be forced if the sync configuration has been changed or content
  has been removed since the last sync.

* When ``pulp-manage-db`` is run, prompt the user to continue if there are Pulp services still running.

* Memory improvements! Worker process recycling can be enabled to release unused memory back to
  the system after tasks complete. This feature is disabled by default. See the
  :ref:`process recycling documentation<process_recycling>` for more info. Thank you to Jan-Otto
  Kröpke for contributing this feature.

Known Issue
-----------

When upgrading to Pulp 2.11, it's possible that the new feature to ensure all workers are stopped
before migrating the database will erroneously report that the workers are still running. During a
manual upgrade, this is simple to bypass, but if you are using a configuration management tools like
Ansible or Puppet your automation may stall on this. See the :ref:`troubleshooting guide
<ignore-running-workers>` for updating your automation to bypass this check.
