=======================
Pulp 2.12 Release Notes
=======================

Pulp 2.12.0
===========

New Features
------------

* Task profiling can now be enabled. This will use `cProfile
  <https://docs.python.org/2/library/profile.html#module-cProfile>`_ on an individual task and write
  the profile to a directory for a given task. While this can impact performance, this enables users
  to get some insight into what a task is doing or give the output to give to a developer for debugging.

* ``pulp-manage-db`` will not continue if pulp_celerybeat, pulp_resource_manager, or pulp_workers
  processes are running. This prevents the user from corrupting their Pulp installation by applying
  migrations while workers or pulp_celerybeat are running. This works in both standalone and clustered
  installations. Pulp may wait up to 92 seconds to determine if workers are running.

* Worker failure detection and high availability failover occurs within 30 seconds. Pulp processes are
  considered missing after 25 seconds, and heartbeats occur every 5 seconds.

* When removing orphan content, the number of items being that have been removed is now stored as
  the result on the orphan removal task. This count is broken down by content unit type. In
  pulp-admin, the result can be looked up with the ``tasks details`` command.


Deprecation
-----------

* Pulp Nodes is now deprecated and will be removed in Pulp 3.0. Users can use a
  Pulp instance and sync repositories to this instance from their main Pulp
  instance instead. For more information, see `our blog post on the subject of
  deprecating Nodes <http://pulpproject.org/2016/12/06/deprecating-nodes/>`_.

Upgrade instructions
--------------------

Upgrade using the normal process::

    $ sudo systemctl stop httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd
    $ sudo yum upgrade
    $ sudo -u apache pulp-manage-db
    $ sudo systemctl start httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd

``pulp_streamer`` and ``goferd`` should be omitted if those services are not installed.

Bug Fixes
---------

See the list of :fixedbugs:`2.12.0`
