=======================
Pulp 2.13 Release Notes
=======================

Pulp 2.13.2
===========

Bug Fixes
---------

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.13.2`


Pulp 2.13.1
===========

Bug Fixes
---------

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.13.1`


Pulp 2.13.0
===========

New Features
------------

* Log statements which are emitted from task processes now include a short task
  id of 8 characters (i.e. ``pulp.server.sync::INFO: [0ca4399c] ...``) which
  can be used to look up a task.

* Users no longer need to have pulp_celerybeat running to know whether pulp_workers or
  pulp_resource_manager are online. All workers now write their own heartbeat records to the
  database, eliminating the dependence on pulp_celerybeat.

* serial_number_path is removed from server.conf. Pulp now generates the serial number
  randomly and does not use the sn.dat file. This is a part of the fix for :redmine:`1839`

* Console logging added in addition the the syslog default. Choose the logger using the `log_type`
  option added to the `[server]` section of `server.conf`. This is especially useful for running
  Pulp in container environments which usually do no have syslog. See :redmine:`2548` for more
  details.

Bug Fixes
---------

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.13.0`

Upgrade instructions
--------------------

Upgrade using the normal process::

    $ sudo systemctl stop httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd
    $ sudo yum upgrade
    $ sudo -u apache pulp-manage-db
    $ sudo systemctl start httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd

``pulp_streamer`` and ``goferd`` should be omitted if those services are not installed.
