======================
Pulp 2.2 Release Notes
======================

Pulp 2.2.0
==========

This release adds support for Fedora 19 and drops support for Fedora 17.

New Features
------------

* Child node synchronization can now be scheduled with an optional recurrence. More
  information can be found in the :doc:`../nodes` section of the user guide.
* Some consumer operations can now be canceled.
* Orphan removal performs much better.

Noteworthy Bugs Fixed
---------------------

* 906420 - Periods in consumer and repository IDs no longer cause problems.

All Bugs
--------

You can see the complete list of bugs that were
`fixed in Pulp 2.2.0 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?list_id=1242840&resolution=---&resolution=CURRENTRELEASE&classification=Community&target_release=2.2.0&query_format=advanced&bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=CLOSED&component=admin-client&component=bindings&component=consumer-client%2Fagent&component=consumers&component=coordinator&component=documentation&component=events&component=nodes&component=okaara&component=rel-eng&component=repositories&component=rest-api&component=selinux&component=upgrade&component=users&component=z_other&product=Pulp>`_.

Upgrade Instructions for 2.1.x --> 2.2.0
----------------------------------------

To upgrade to the new Pulp release from version 2.1.x, you should begin by using yum to install the latest RPMs
from the Pulp repository and run the database migrations::

    $ sudo yum upgrade
    $ sudo pulp-manage-db

Then restart apache.


Pulp 2.2.1
==========

New Features
------------

* MongoDB replica sets are now supported. See the comments in ``/etc/pulp/server.conf``
  under the ``[database]`` section for information on how to configure Pulp to use
  a replica set.

Bug Fixes
---------

Multiple proxy-related issues related to authentication and HTTPS to the proxy
were fixed in :bz:`1022662` and :bz:`1014368`.

See the RPM-specific user guide for highlights of the most important bug fixes
there. All bug fixes for this release can be seen at this link:

`All Bug Fixes <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?bug_status=VERIFIED&classification=Community&product=Pulp&query_format=advanced&target_release=2.2.1>`_

