=======================
Pulp 2.21 Release Notes
=======================


Pulp 2.21.3
===========

Bug Fixes
---------

* Fixed the issue with retrieving already calculated applicability profiles.
* Fixed the issue with missing some of consumers for applicability calculation.
* Fixed the $date operator for nested Mongo search queries.
* Fixed BSON too large error when removing content from a very large repo.

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.21.3`


Pulp 2.21.2
===========

Bug Fixes
---------

* Fixed cleanup of modular applicability profiles.
* Fixed publish of an empty repo.

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.21.2`


Pulp 2.21.1
===========

Bug Fixes
---------

* Allow for MONGODB-X509 authentication to Mongo.
* Split filter items to avoid BSON document too large during copy.
* Preserve older copies of metadata files.
* Pulp 3 can't sync when installed alongside Pulp 2.

See the list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.21.1`


Pulp 2.21.0
===========

New Features
------------

See plugins' release notes for the new features being introduced.

Bug Fixes
---------

* Fixed large requests failing due to "request body exceeded settings.DATA_UPLOAD_MAX_MEMORY_SIZE".
* Upsert query raises NotUniqueError.

See the full list of :fixedbugs_pulp:`2.21.0`

Upgrade instructions
--------------------

Upgrade using the normal process::

    $ sudo systemctl stop httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd
    $ sudo yum upgrade
    $ sudo -u apache pulp-manage-db
    $ sudo systemctl start httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd

``pulp_streamer`` and ``goferd`` should be omitted if those services are not installed.
