=========================
Pulp 2.5 Release Notes
=========================

Pulp 2.5.0
===========

New Features
------------

- pulp-admin now has a bash tab completion script.

- A new selinux policy is introduced which confines the `pulp_workers`, `pulp_celerybeat`, and
  `pulp_resource_manager` processes.

- Pulp 2.5.0 works with `pulp_docker`, an optional plugin to manage Docker
  repositories. In Pulp 2.5.0 this optional plugin is considered "tech preview"
  and did not undergo the same level of testing as other plugins. Please
  refer to the
  `pulp_docker documentation <http://pulp-docker.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_
  for usage information.

- Pulp now supports SSL on its connection to MongoDB. It is strongly recommended that you
  `configure MongoDB to perform SSL`_, and configure Pulp to require a validly signed certificate
  from Mongo. If you wish to do this, edit ``/etc/pulp/server.conf`` and configure ``ssl`` and
  ``verify_ssl`` to ``true`` in the ``[database]`` section.

.. _configure MongoDB to perform SSL: http://docs.mongodb.org/v2.4/tutorial/configure-ssl/#configure-mongod-and-mongos-for-ssl

- When the `pulp_workers` service is stopped, it will now cancel tasks that the
  workers are processing instead of waiting for those tasks to finish.

Deprecation
-----------

- The `task_type` attribute of a `Task Report` is deprecated with Pulp 2.5.0. This attribute will
  be removed in a future release.

- Many API calls return an attribute named `_ns`. This attribute will be removed in a future
  release and should not be used.

Bugs
----

You can see the complete list of bugs that were
`fixed in Pulp 2.5.0 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/buglist.cgi?bug_status=VERIFIED&bug_status=RELEASE_PENDING&bug_status=CLOSED&classification=Community&component=API%2Fintegration&component=async%2Ftasks&component=consumers&component=documentation&component=nodes&component=rel-eng&component=user-experience&component=z_other&list_id=2768089&product=Pulp&query_format=advanced&target_release=2.5.0>`_.

.. _2.4.x_upgrade_to_2.5.0:

Upgrade Instructions for 2.4.x --> 2.5.0
-----------------------------------------

For all systems that have Pulp software installed, perform a system update::

    $ sudo yum update

Thank You
---------

Thank you to all of Pulp's contributors, especially these new ones!

- Irina Gulina
- Peter Gustafsson
- Petter Hassberg
- Dennis Kliban
- Christoffer Kylvåg
- Austin Macdonald
